[RF-DOCS] Rails Engines (#15)
Ridhwana/rails: guides/source/engines.md

**DO NOT READ THIS FILE ON GITHUB, GUIDES ARE PUBLISHED ON <https://guides.rubyonrails.org>.**

Rails Engines Overview
======================

In this guide you will learn about engines and how they can be used to provide

> additional functionality to their host applications through a clean and very

Reviewer: so we're not over selling it haha
```suggestion
additional functionality to their host applications through a clean and
```

What are Engines?
-----------------

Engines can be thought of as miniature applications that encapsulate specific
functionality and integrate with a larger Rails application. A Rails application
is essentially a "supercharged" engine, with the `Rails::Application` class
inheriting a lot of its behavior from `Rails::Engine`, which in turn [inherits
from `Rails::Railtie`](engines.html#the-inheritance-hierarchy).

The main application is always the final authority in a Rails environment. While
engines can extend or enhance the application's functionality, they are meant to
support the app — not override or redefine its behavior. Engines exist to serve

> the application, not the other way around.

Reviewer: This might be better as an "aside" towards the end of the "What are Engines" section? Having it in the 2nd paragraph feels out of place, before we've gotten into the main explanation.

Some examples of engines in action:

* [Devise](https://github.com/plataformatec/devise) which provides authentication for its parent applications
* [Thredded](https://github.com/thredded/thredded) which provides forum functionality
* [Spree](https://github.com/spree/spree) which provides an e-commerce platform

> * [Refinery CMS](https://github.com/refinery/refinerycms) which provides a CMS engine

Reviewer 2: It might be worth mentioning that Active Storage and Action Text are implemented as engines as well.

### Inheritance Hierarchy

At the base of this hierarchy,
[`Railtie`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/Rails/Railtie.html) is the core
building block of the Rails framework. It provides hooks into the Rails
initialization process and allows extensions, such as frameworks (e.g., Active
Record, Action Mailer) or third-party libraries, to tie into the Rails boot
sequence.

The [`Rails Engine`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/Rails/Engine.html) builds on
`Railtie` by adding support for things like routes, isolated namespaces, and
load paths, making it possible to package complete Rails components. Engines and

> applications also share a common structure.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can be a bit more explicit here about the type of structure?
```suggestion
applications also share a common directory structure.
```

Finally,
[`Application`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/Rails/Application.html)
extends `Engine` with additional responsibilities like middleware setup,

> configuration loading, and application initialization. Engines and

Reviewer 2: I think this whole section is great in explaining the inheritance.
A tiny nitpick is that, at a quick glance, it might imply that an engine requires an `Application` class.

Author: Updated to read:

While an engine can be part of a larger Rails application, it does not require
an [`Application`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/Rails/Application.html)
class to function. However, `Application` can extend `Engine` with additional
responsibilities like middleware setup, configuration loading, and application
initialization.

> applications also share a common structure.

Reviewer 2: This line is a duplicate of the line in the previous paragraph:
```suggestion
configuration loading, and application initialization.
```

generated using either:

- `rails plugin new <engine_name> --full`, or
- `rails plugin new <engine_name> --mountable`.

The `--full` option tells the generator that you want to create an engine that
needs its own models/controllers but shares the host app's namespace, while the
`--mountable` option tells the generator that you want to create a fully
isolated, mountable engine with its own namespace.

You can read more about the different generator options in the [Rails Plugins
Generator Options](plugins.html#generator-options) section.

### Using an Engine

You add an engine to your host applications `Gemfile`, and then mount it in the
main app's routes. Once mounted, any routes, controllers, views, or assets
defined in the engine become available at that mount point in the host
application. We'll cover this later in the section [Using an Engine in the Host
Application](#using-an-engine-in-the-host-application).

Since the engine has an isolated namespace, this means that an application is
able to have a path provided by a routing helper such as
`articles_path` and the engine can have a path also called

> `articles_path` without clashing. Along with this, controllers, models

Reviewer: nit: feels wordy, how about this to make it a bit more concise? Feel free to ignore :)
```suggestion
Since a mounted engine has an isolated namespace, the host application and the mounted engine can have a routing helper with the same name (such as `articles_path`) without clashing. Along with this, controllers, models
```

and table names are also namespaced. You'll see how to do this later in the
[Routes section](#routes).

Generating an Engine
--------------------

In the following example, we'll be building an engine, called "blorgh" that
provides blogging functionality to its host applications, allowing for new
articles and comments to be created. We'll be using the [`--mountable`
option](plugins.html#generator-options) to generate the engine.

To generate an engine, you will need to run the plugin generator and pass it

> options as appropriate to the need. For the "blorgh" example, you will need to

Reviewer 2: This sentence is a bit awkward.
Maybe something like:
```suggestion
options as needed. For the "blorgh" example, you will need to
```

Reviewer: Or simply "Here is the command to generate a mountable engine:" followed by the code block. Or even put a colon `:` at the end of the previous paragraph as it already mentions the `--mountable` option.

$ rails plugin new blorgh --mountable
```

The `--mountable` option will allow our engine to behave like a self-contained mini-application that can be easily integrated into a host Rails application without polluting its global namespace. It will:

- namespace all controllers, routes, views, helpers, and assets under the `Blorgh` module, preventing conflicts with similarly named components in the host app.
- isolate routing to the engine, allowing you to mount it at a specific path in the host app (e.g., `/blorgh`), while keeping its internal route structure independent.
- make the engine more modular and reusable, so it can be plugged into different applications with minimal configuration.

> ### The Structure

Reviewer: would this be:
```suggestion
### The Directory Structure
```

The structure of the `--mountable` engine will be as follows:

```
blorgh/
├── app/
│   ├── assets/
│   │   ├── javascripts/
│   │   │   ├── blorgh/
│   │   │   │   └── application.js
│   │   │   └── blorgh_manifest.js
│   │   └── stylesheets/
│   │       ├── blorgh/
│   │       │   └── application.css
│   │       └── application.css
│   ├── controllers/
│   │   └── blorgh/
│   │       └── application_controller.rb
│   ├── helpers/
│   │   └── blorgh/
│   │       └── application_helper.rb
│   ├── mailers/
│   ├── models/
│   └── views/
│       └── layouts/
│           └── blorgh/
│               └── application.html.erb
├── bin/
├── blorgh.gemspec
├── config/
│   ├── initializers/
│   └── routes.rb
├── lib/
│   ├── blorgh/
│   │   └── engine.rb
│   ├── blorgh.rb
│   └── tasks/
│       └── blorgh_tasks.rake
├── MIT-LICENSE
├── Rakefile
├── README.md
├── test/
│   ├── dummy/
│   │   ├── app/
│   │   ├── bin/
│   │   ├── config/
│   │   ├── db/
│   │   ├── public/
│   │   └── ... (full Rails app)
│   ├── integration/
│   └── test_helper.rb
└── tmp/
```

> It provides the following:

Reviewer: Would this be a good place to mention the dummy application as well? Not sure if I missed it, but haven't seen it mentioned yet..

Author: I've read through it again and It's mentioned slightly further down on line 220

```
Additionally, the `--mountable` option tells the generator to mount the engine
inside the dummy testing application located at `test/dummy` by adding the
following to the dummy application's routes file at
`test/dummy/config/routes.rb`:

```ruby
mount Blorgh::Engine => "/blorgh"
```
```

mount Blorgh::Engine => "/blorgh"
```

A full list of options for the plugin generator can be seen by running:

```bash
$ rails plugin --help
```

> ### Core Setup

Reviewer: maybe?
```suggestion
### Core Engine Setup
```

```

By inheriting from the `Rails::Engine` class, this gem notifies Rails that
there's an engine at the specified path. Rails will automatically:

* Add the engine’s `app/` folder to the load path.
* Load the engine’s models, mailers, controllers, and views.
* Mount the engine at the specified path when used in a host app.

> The `isolate_namespace Blorgh` from the Engine class is crucial. It prevents your engine’s components — like models, routes, helpers, and controllers, from clashing with those in the host application or other engines.

Reviewer: parens or add matching dash?
```suggestion
The `isolate_namespace Blorgh` from the Engine class is crucial. It prevents your engine’s components (like models, routes, helpers, and controllers) from clashing with those in the host application or other engines.
```

For example:

* A generated model becomes `Blorgh::Article` rather than `Article`.
* The table name is `blorgh_articles`, not `articles`.
* A controller becomes `Blorgh::ArticlesController`, with views in
  `app/views/blorgh/articles`.
* A helper becomes `Blorgh::ArticlesHelper`, with views in
  `app/helpers/blorgh/articles_helper.rb`.
* Mailers and Jobs are namespaced as well.
* Engine routes are kept isolated and don’t mix with the main app’s routes. This
  is discussed later in the [Routes](#routes) section of this guide.

Without this isolation, files from the engine might "leak" into the host app’s namespace or identically named classes might override each other.

NOTE: It is recommended that the `isolate_namespace` line be left within the
`Engine` class definition. Without it, classes generated in an engine may

> conflict with an application.

Reviewer: The note seems to repeat the last paragraph. Maybe remove the paragraph above it or combine the two?

Keep in mind, of course, that anything generated with these commands inside of
an engine that has `isolate_namespace` in the `Engine` class will be namespaced.

#### `/test`

The `test` directory is where tests for the engine will go. To test the engine,
there is a cut-down version of a Rails application embedded within it at
`test/dummy`. This application will mount the engine at `/blorgh`, which will

> make it accessible through the application only at that path.

Reviewer: repeats line 396 below I think.

Providing Engine Functionality
------------------------------

The engine that we'll build, `blorgh`, will allow you to add article submissions and
comment functionality when added to any Rails application.

### Generating an Article Resource

> 

Reviewer: Should we clarify that the commands below are executed in the host app?

Author: These commands are executed in the engine (and not the host app) to generate the article, comments etc. and not in the host app. Do you think thats unclear? 

Details/commands to be executed in the Host application lives in "Using the Engine in a Host Application".

invoke      test_unit
```

#### The Migration and Model

The scaffold generator invokes the `active_record` generator, which generates a
_migration_ and a _model_ for the resource.

NOTE: The migration is named `create_blorgh_articles` instead of the usual
`create_articles`, and the model is located at `app/models/blorgh/article.rb`
rather than `app/models/article.rb`. </br></br> This is due to the use of the
`isolate_namespace` method in the `Blorgh::Engine` class, which ensures that

> models, migrations, and other components are properly namespaced under `Blorgh`.

Reviewer: I think we have made the point about namespacing pretty clearly above already. So if we wanted to keep the note short and in one line, something like this?

```suggestion
rather than `app/models/article.rb`, since we used
`isolate_namespace` method in the `Blorgh::Engine` class.
```

end
```

This prevents conflicts with any other engine or application that may have
an article resource as well.

#### Exploring the Engine in the Browser

You can explore the engine by running `bin/rails db:migrate` at the root of the
engine, and then running `bin/rails server` in the engine's root directory.

When you open `http://localhost:3000/blorgh/articles` you will see the default scaffold that
has been generated.

![The landing page](images/engines/engine_article_page.png)

Congratulations, you've just generated your first engine!

#### Exploring the Engine in the Console

> If you'd rather explore in the console, you can run `bin/rails console`.

Reviewer: should we say which directory to run this from?

Remember: the `Article` model is namespaced, so to reference it you must call it
as `Blorgh::Article`.

```irb
irb> Blorgh::Article.create(title: "Hello, world!", text: "This is a test article.")
=>  #<Blorgh::Article id: 1, title: "Hello, world!", text: "This is a test article.", created_at: "2025-07-13 07:55:27.610591000 +0000", updated_at: "2025-07-13 07:55:27.610591000 +0000">

irb> Blorgh::Article.find(1)
=> #<Blorgh::Article id: 1, title: "Hello, world!" ...>
```

Whenever someone goes to the root path where the engine is
mounted, they should be shown a list of articles. To do this, add this line

```ruby
root to: "articles#index"
```

to the `config/routes.rb` file inside the engine.

Now you will only need to go to the root of the engine to see all the articles,
rather than visiting `/articles`. This means that instead of visiting
`http://localhost:3000/blorgh/articles`, you only need to go to

> `http://localhost:3000/blorgh` now.

Reviewer: Cool. At least these statements read clear even without the image.

![The landing page](images/engines/engine_root_page.png)

### Generating a Comments Resource

Now that the engine can create new articles, let's add the ability to comment.
To do this, you'll need to generate a comment model, a comment controller, and
then modify the articles scaffold to display comments and allow people to create
new ones.

> From the engine root, run the model generator to generate a `Comment` model,

Reviewer: +1 for saying which directory "from the engine root".

```
invoke  active_record
create    db/migrate/<timestamp>_create_blorgh_comments.rb
create    app/models/blorgh/comment.rb
invoke    test_unit
create      test/models/blorgh/comment_test.rb
create      test/fixtures/blorgh/comments.yml
```

This will generate a `Blorgh::Comment` model and a migration to create the
`blorgh_comments` table.

The generated migration will look like this:

```ruby
# db/migrate/<timestamp>_create_blorgh_comments.rb
class CreateBlorghComments < ActiveRecord::Migration[8.0]
  def change
    create_table :blorgh_comments do |t|
      t.references :article, null: false, foreign_key: true
      t.text :text

      t.timestamps
    end
  end
end
```

However, since you're building an isolated engine, the model `Blorgh::Comment`
references `Blorgh::Article`, so the `article_id` foreign key should point to
the `blorgh_articles` table, not an `articles` table.

> To fix this, you can modify the migration to look like this:

Reviewer: should be somehow emphasize that we need to manually modify the migration before running it? maybe a NOTE?

Author: Good catch- I updated it to read : "To fix this, you can modify the existing migration file to look like this:"

```ruby
# db/migrate/<timestamp>_create_blorgh_comments.rb
class CreateBlorghComments < ActiveRecord::Migration[8.0]
  def change
    create_table :blorgh_comments do |t|
      t.references :article, null: false, foreign_key: { to_table: :blorgh_articles }
      t.text :text

      t.timestamps
    end
  end
end
```

Now, you can run the migration to create the `blorgh_comments` table:

```bash
$ bin/rails db:migrate
```

#### Updating the View to Show the Comments

To show the comments on an article, edit `app/views/blorgh/articles/show.html.erb`
and add this line before the "Edit" link:

```html+erb
<h3>Comments</h3>
<%= render @article.comments %>
```

To get the comments to display on an article, you'll need to define a `has_many`
association for comments on the `Blorgh::Article` model. To do this, open

> `app/models/blorgh/article.rb` and add the `has_many` association:

Reviewer: To keep it succinct (as this is the usual, nothing Engine specific), maybe something like this?:
```suggestion
To get the comments to display on an article, define a `has_many`
association on the `Blorgh::Article` model:
```

`Blorgh::Engine` class. This `Engine` class is responsible for hooking into the
Rails application and mounting the engine's routes, initializers, and other
configurations.

To make the engine's functionality available within a host application, you need
to mount it in the application's `config/routes.rb` file:

```ruby
mount Blorgh::Engine, at: "/blog"
```

This mounts the engine at the `/blog` path, making its routes accessible at
`http://localhost:3000/blog` when the application is running.

NOTE: Some engines, like Devise, expose custom routing helpers (such as
`devise_for`) instead of using `mount`. These helpers internally mount parts of
the engine's functionality at specific paths and provide additional
configuration options tailored to the engine's domain.

However, if you try to run the application at this point, you will see an error
like this:

```bash
SQLite3::SQLException: no such table: blorgh_articles:
SELECT "blorgh_articles".* FROM "blorgh_articles" /*action='index',application='HostApplication',controller='articles'*/
```

This is because the engine's migrations haven't been copied over to the host

> application's database as yet. We'll walk through how to do this in the next

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is because the engine's migrations haven't been copied over to the host
application's database yet. We'll walk through how to do this in the next
```

section.

### Engine Setup

The engine contains migrations for the `blorgh_articles` and
`blorgh_comments` tables which need to be created in the application's database
so that the engine's models can query them correctly.

#### Copying the Migrations

To copy these migrations into the application run the following command from the application's root:

```bash
$ bin/rails blorgh:install:migrations
```

which will output something like this:

```
Copied migration <timestamp_1>_create_blorgh_articles.blorgh.rb from blorgh
Copied migration <timestamp_2>_create_blorgh_comments.blorgh.rb from blorgh
```

NOTE: When run for the first time, it copies over all the migrations from the
engine. When run the next time, it will only copy over migrations that haven't
been copied over already. This is useful if you want to revert the migrations
from the engine.

#### Referencing a Custom Path for the Migrations

If your engine stores its migrations in the non-default location, you can
specify a custom path in the source engine for the migrations using
`MIGRATIONS_PATH`.

```bash
$ bin/rails railties:install:migrations MIGRATIONS_PATH=db_blorgh
```

> #### Migrations for Multiple Engines

Reviewer: Would it be better for this subsection to be _before_ the previous one, since this one introduces/explains the `railties` variation command?

Author: Good call!

If you have multiple engines referenced in the host application, that need migrations copied over, use
`railties:install:migrations` instead:

```bash
$ bin/rails railties:install:migrations
```

This will save you from having to run a separate `install:migrations` task for each engine individually.

#### Migrations for Multiple Databases

If you have multiple databases within an engine, you can specify the target database by

> specifying DATABASE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specifying the DATABASE option.
```

```bash
$ bin/rails railties:install:migrations DATABASE=animals
```

NOTE: These tasks are provided by
[Railtie](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/Rails/Railtie.html), the Rails
component responsible for managing how engines and plugins are integrated into
an application. When run, it looks through all loaded engines and copies any
exposed migrations into the host application's `db/migrate` folder, saving you
from having to run a separate `install:migrations` task for each engine

> individually.

Reviewer: that's useful!

Run the migration using:

```bash
$ bin/rails db:migrate
```

#### Viewing the Association in the Rails console

Now that you've associated the `author_name` from the engine to the `User` model
in the host application, you can go to the form in the host application at
`http://localhost:3000/blog/articles/new` and create an article with an author
name that will create and link to a `User` record in the host application.

![Article with Associated Author](images/engines/engine_article_with_author_page.png)

If you open up the rails console in the host application, you can view the
`Blorgh::Article` record that was created, and see that it is associated with the
`User` record from the host application:

```irb
irb> article = Blorgh::Article.last
=> #<Blorgh::Article id: 1, title: "Hello, World!", text: "This is a test article.", created_at: "2025-07-16 19:04:54.552457000 +0000", updated_at: "2025-07-16 19:04:54.552457000 +0000", author_id: 1>

irb> user = User.find(article.author_id)
=> #<User id: 1, name: "Fake Author 1", created_at: "2025-07-16 19:04:54.542709000 +0000", updated_at: "2025-07-16 19:04:54.542709000 +0000">

> ```

Reviewer: That whole section was clear and useful 👍

application chooses to use. This will be followed by general configuration tips
for the engine.

#### Creating the `author_class` Configuration Setting in the Engine

To make the class that represents a `User` in the application customizable for
the engine, the engine should have a configuration setting called `author_class`
that will be used to specify which class represents `authors` within the host
application.

To define this configuration setting, you should use a
[`mattr_accessor`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/Module.html#method-i-mattr_accessor)
inside the `Blorgh` module for the engine. Add this line to the `Blorgh` module:

```ruby
# lib/blorgh.rb
module Blorgh
  mattr_accessor :author_class
end
```

This method provides a getter and setter method on the module with the specified
name. To use it, it must be referenced using `Blorgh.author_class`.

The next step is to switch the `Blorgh::Article` model over to this new setting.
Replace `belongs_to :author, class_name: "User"` with `Blorgh.author_class` in
the `Blorgh::Article` model with the following:

```ruby
# app/models/blorgh/article.rb
belongs_to :author, class_name: Blorgh.author_class
```

> `self.author = User.find_or_create_by(name: author_name)` in the `Blorgh::Article` model should also use this class instead of `User`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The line `self.author = User.find_or_create_by(name: author_name)` in the `Blorgh::Article` model should also use this class instead of `User`:
```

```ruby
# app/models/blorgh/article.rb

self.author = Blorgh.author_class.constantize.find_or_create_by(name: author_name)
```

To save having to call `constantize` on the `author_class` result all the time,
you could instead override the `author_class` getter method inside the `Blorgh`
module to always call `constantize` on the saved value before returning the
result:

```ruby
# lib/blorgh.rb
module Blorgh
  mattr_accessor :author_class

  def self.author_class
    @@author_class.constantize
  end
end
```

This would then turn the above code for `set_author` into this:

```ruby
# app/models/blorgh/article.rb
self.author = Blorgh.author_class.find_or_create_by(name: author_name)
```

The `author_class` method should always return a `Class` object. Since we
changed the `author_class` method to return a `Class` instead of a `String`, we
must also modify our `belongs_to` definition in the `Blorgh::Article` model to
use the `to_s` method:

```ruby
# app/models/blorgh/article.rb

belongs_to :author, class_name: Blorgh.author_class.to_s
```

#### Setting the `author_class` Configuration Setting in the Host Application

> To set this configuration setting within the host application, an initializer
> should be used. By using an initializer, the configuration will be set up before

Reviewer: nit
```suggestion
To set this configuration setting within the host application, an initializer
can be used. By using an initializer, the configuration will be set up before
```

set the `author_class` configuration setting to `Person`.

WARNING: Be sure to pass the class name as a string (e.g., `"User"`), not as a
constant (`User`). If you use the class directly, Rails may try to load it and
its associated table before the application has fully initialized. This can
cause errors if the table hasn't been created yet. By using a string, the engine
can safely convert it to a class later using `constantize`, after initialization
is complete.

Try creating a new article - everything should work just as before. The key
difference is that the engine now uses the `author_class` configuration set in
`config/initializers/blorgh.rb` to determine which model to associate as the
author.

At this point, the engine no longer has a hardcoded dependency on a specific
class name like `User`. Instead, it relies on whatever class is specified in the
configuration. The only requirement is that the configured class responds to
`find_or_create_by` and returns an object that can be associated with an article.
That object should also have an identifiable attribute (such as an `id`)
that can be used for lookup and display.

> 

Reviewer: All of that was also clear and thorough 👍

For locales, simply place the locale files in the `config/locales` directory,
just like you would in an application.

Improving the Engine
--------------------

> This section explains how to add and/or override engine MVC functionality in the
> main Rails application.

Reviewer: nit: does this sentence work without the MVC acronym?
```suggestion
This section explains how to add and/or override engine functionality in the
main Rails application.
```

#### Naming Convention

It’s recommended to suffix override files with `_override.rb` (e.g., `article_override.rb`) to clearly distinguish them from standard models and controllers and to avoid any conflicts with autoloaded files.

#### Reopening Existing Classes Using `class_eval`

For example, in order to override the engine model

```ruby
# blorgh/app/models/blorgh/article.rb
module Blorgh
  class Article < ApplicationRecord
    # ...
  end
end
```

you can create a file that _reopens_ that class. This example reopens the
`Blorgh::Article` model and adds a validation for the `title` attribute.

```ruby
# host_application/app/overrides/models/blorgh/article_override.rb
Blorgh::Article.class_eval do
  validates :title, presence: true, length: { minimum: 10 }
end
```

It is very important that the override _reopens_ the class or module. Using the
`class` or `module` keywords would define them if they were not already in
memory, which would be incorrect because the definition lives in the engine.

> Using `class_eval` as shown above ensures you are reopening.

Reviewer: Worth adding api link for `class_eval`?

#### Reopening Existing Classes Using ActiveSupport::Concern

Using `Class#class_eval` is great for simple adjustments, but for more complex
class modifications, you might want to consider using
[`ActiveSupport::Concern`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/Concern.html).
ActiveSupport::Concern manages load order of interlinked dependent modules and

> classes at run time, allowing you to significantly modularize your code.

Reviewer: This reads a bit confusing, can it be reworded? Not sure what it's getting at...

Author: Updated: 

While [`Class#class_eval`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/Module.html#method-i-class_eval) is useful for making simple runtime changes to a class, more complex modifications—especially those involving multiple modules with dependencies—are often better handled using [`ActiveSupport::Concern`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/Concern.html). It provides a structured way to define module behavior and dependencies, ensuring consistent load order and making it easier to organize and compose reusable code.

end
```

##### Setting Up the Engine’s Base Model

Set up the engine’s base model:

```ruby
# blorgh/app/models/blorgh/article.rb
module Blorgh
  class Article < ApplicationRecord
    include Blorgh::Concerns::Models::Article
  end
end
```

> ##### Including the Concern

Reviewer: This section seems like it's _defining_ the Concern...should it be?
```suggestion
##### Defining the Concern
```

Please check the [Autoloading and Reloading Constants](autoloading_and_reloading_constants.html#autoloading-and-engines)
guide for more information about autoloading and engines.

### Overriding Views

> When the Rails Host Application looks for a view to render, it will first look

Reviewer: We don't capitalize it anywhere else:
```suggestion
When the host application looks for a view to render, it will first look
```

<%= link_to "New Article", new_article_path %>
<% @articles.each do |article| %>
  <h2><%= article.title %></h2>
  <small>By <%= article.author.name %></small>
  <%= simple_format(article.text) %>
  <hr>
<% end %>
```

The new view at `localhost:3000/blog/articles` will now display the following:

![New overridden view at `localhost:3000/blog/articles`](images/engines/engine_articles_overriden_page.png)

### Routes

Routes defined inside a Rails engine are isolated from the main application by
default. This isolation is established by the
[`isolate_namespace`](#the-engine-class-definition-lib-blorgh-engine-rb) call in
the engine’s `Engine` class. It allows both the engine and the application to

> define routes with the same names—like `articles_path`—without conflict.

Reviewer: I think this was already mentioned further up? If there is not a good reason to repeat, maybe the this small sub-section can be removed?

Author: I'd like to keep this one because if someone is just coming to read this section in the guides, it provides  a good intro.

for assets in the engine’s `app/assets` and `lib/assets` directories.

To avoid naming conflicts with the host application, all engine assets should be
namespaced under a subdirectory that matches the engine’s name. For example,
instead of placing a stylesheet directly at `app/assets/stylesheets/style.css`,
you should place it at `app/assets/stylesheets/<engine_name>/style.css`, which
would be `app/assets/stylesheets/blorgh/style.css` for the `blorgh` engine.

This prevents collisions with assets in the host application that may have the
same filename.

To include a namespaced engine asset in the host application, reference it using
its full path with the `stylesheet_link_tag` (or similar helpers):

```html+erb
<%= stylesheet_link_tag "blorgh/style.css" %>
```

This will correctly load the stylesheet located at
`app/assets/stylesheets/blorgh/style.css` within the engine.

If you’re using the Asset Pipeline (Sprockets), you can also include engine
assets as dependencies within other stylesheets using a `require` directive:

```css
/*
 *= require blorgh/style
 */
```

This allows engine styles to be bundled into application-wide stylesheets.

> INFO. Remember that in order to use languages like Sass or CoffeeScript, you
> should add the relevant library to your engine's `.gemspec`.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
INFO: Remember that in order to use languages like Sass, you
need to add the relevant library to your engine's `.gemspec`.

```

Author: `INFO.` works the same as `INFO:` from my understanding. I'm not sure which is the better practice, since both are used, but the I'll go with `:`, because it reads more naturally.

<img width="1700" height="264" alt="CleanShot 2025-08-03 at 20 56 05@2x" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3efb4a4b-2251-451c-91fb-30ed3bf21fda" />

### Separate Assets and Precompiling

In some cases, your engine may include assets that are not required by the host
application. For example, suppose your engine provides an admin interface with
its own layout and styles. These assets, such as `admin.css` or `admin.js`, are
only used within the engine and don't need to be included in the host
application's asset pipeline.

In such situations, it doesn’t make sense for the host app to reference these
assets manually (e.g., via `stylesheet_link_tag "blorgh/admin"`). Instead, you
should explicitly tell Rails to precompile these assets so they’re available
when the engine is used.

To do this, you can add a precompilation hook in your engine’s engine.rb file:

```ruby
# lib/blorgh/engine.rb
module Blorgh
  class Engine < ::Rails::Engine
    isolate_namespace Blorgh

    initializer "blorgh.assets.precompile" do |app|
      app.config.assets.precompile += %w( blorgh/admin.js blorgh/admin.css )
    end
  end
end
```

This ensures that these engine-specific assets will be compiled when running:

```bash
bin/rails assets:precompile
```

> INFO. Be sure to include the full namespaced paths (e.g., `blorgh/admin.css`)
> so Sprockets can locate the correct files within your engine.

Reviewer: or is this NOTE?
```suggestion
INFO: Be sure to include the full namespaced paths (e.g., `blorgh/admin.css`)
so Sprockets can locate the correct files within your engine.
```

Author: Yup, it is a note!
